Version 0.0.2 (2024-08-09)
**************************

 * *Enhancement*: Added --output-to-console
 * *Enhancement*: Enable building without writing to file
 * *Enhancement*: Add --get-changed-files
 * *Bug fix*: Empty file change lines removed from output
 * *Bug fix*: Fixed quiet not being quiet.

Enhancement
===========

Added --output-to-console
-------------------------

--output-to-console now writes generated release notes to the console.
This is disabled by default.'


::

    modified: src/brassy/brassy.py

Enable building without writing to file
---------------------------------------

Previously, if no output file was specified, brassy quit with an "Invalid Arguments"
error. Now brassy will build the release notes and print a message saying no
file was written because no output file was passed. This is helpful for verifying
the build process works without having to write to a temporary file.


::

    modified: src/brassy/brassy.py

Add --get-changed-files
-----------------------

Running brassy with --get-changed-files now outputs the files that have been
modified, added, deleted or moved in the current branch as compared to the main
branch. It runs on the current directory by default,
but it accepts a path as an argument.

For example, the output looks like this:

::

    brassy --get-changed-files

        added: test
        modified: test2
        deleted: test3
        moved: test4

It prints with indents for easy copy-and-pasting into your yaml files.


::

    modified: src/brassy/brassy.py

Bug fix
=======

Empty file change lines removed from output
-------------------------------------------

In the files section, if (eg.) "modified:" was left blank,
a blank "modified:" would be generated in resulting release notes.
Those stray blank entries are now removed from the output.


::

    modified: src/brassy/brassy.py

Fixed quiet not being quiet.
----------------------------

When running with --quiet, non-error output would be outputted. Fixed.

::

    modified: src/brassy/brassy.py
