Version 0.0.3 (October 23, 2024)
********************************

 * *Enhancement*: Implement default path
 * *Enhancement*: Add internal option to related issue
 * *Enhancement*: Add --init that writes out config files
 * *Enhancement*: Put title at top of template
 * *Enhancement*: Allow users to disable pipe on description field
 * *Enhancement*: Add start and finish dates for changes
 * *Bug fix*: Print pretty error on blank yaml.
 * *Bug fix*: Builds now have sections with either a missing title or description
 * *Bug fix*: Allow entries to have no field and no title
 * *Bug fix*: Fix bug with --write-template-error
 * *Bug fix*: Make optional dates optional
 * *Bug fix*: Fix empty "--write-yaml-template bug
 * *Documentation*: Documentation updated for new version
 * *Documentation*: Fix docs rendering of examples.
 * *Continuous integration*: Added new templating integration test
 * *Continuous integration*: Add integration tests

Enhancement
===========

Implement default path
----------------------

Add experimental feature where a path can be specified in the settings as the "default" path for brassy actions.

::

     modified: brassy.py

Enhancement
===========

Add internal option to related issue
------------------------------------

Some organizations use internal repos that cannot be accessed by CI. This change adds an "internal" field for the
related issue so that users can add strings directly rather than use the URL+issue number combo previously provided. The
strings are rendered directly, but must fit a "repo#number - description" pattern. The field is named "internal" to
suggest to users that when possible the URL option *should* be used to access future functionality.

::

     modified: src/brassy/templates/release_yaml_template.py

Enhancement
===========

Add --init that writes out config files
---------------------------------------

Added new CLI option that generates project ``.brassy`` config files

::

     added: src/brassy/actions/init.py

Enhancement
===========

Put title at top of template
----------------------------

Title is now at top of template because users were mixing up description and title. This change is backwards compatible,
and no updates to yaml files are needed.

::

     modified: src/brassy/brassy.py

Enhancement
===========

Allow users to disable pipe on description field
------------------------------------------------

A pipe is added by default in this release. This change allows users to revert
to the old behaviour by changing their local settings.

Enhancement
===========

Add start and finish dates for changes
--------------------------------------

Per user request, start and finish date fields have been added to the yaml template. They are NOT rendered yet.

::

     modified: src/brassy/brassy.py

Bug fix
=======

Print pretty error on blank yaml.
---------------------------------

Now prints "No valid YAML content in file. Please populate example.yaml" when run on blank yaml file.

::

     modified: src/brassy/brassy.py

Bug fix
=======

Builds now have sections with either a missing title or description
-------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously, if yaml files only had title OR description populated, they would silently not get built into release notes.
Now they are incorporated into release notes with a warning.

::

     modified: README.md
     modified: src/brassy/__init__.py
     modified: src/brassy/actions/build_release_notes.py
     modified: src/brassy/templates/release_yaml_template.py
     modified: src/brassy/utils/CLI.py

Bug fix
=======

Allow entries to have no field and no title
-------------------------------------------

Not allowing fields to have no title was causing blank sections to
break builds. Check removed for now.

Bug fix
=======

Fix bug with --write-template-error
-----------------------------------

Fixed issue where --write-template-error wouldn't run without argument

::

     modified: src/brassy/brassy.py

Bug fix
=======

Make optional dates optional
----------------------------

Dates for changes are optional. This fix allows users to leave the entry off, rather than requiring a null field for
building.

::

     modified: src/brassy/templates/release_yaml_template.py

Bug fix
=======

Fix empty "--write-yaml-template bug
------------------------------------

This was previously hotfixed, merging into main codebase now.

::

     modified: src/brassy/brassy.py

Documentation
=============

Documentation updated for new version
-------------------------------------

Documentation written for new versions! :)

Documentation
=============

Fix docs rendering of examples.
-------------------------------

Fix docs rendering of yaml examples by updating old yaml files.

::

     modified: docs/api.html
     modified: docs/genindex.html
     modified: docs/getting-started.html
     modified: docs/index.html
     modified: docs/objects.inv
     modified: docs/searchindex.js
     modified: pyproject.toml
     modified: sphinx/source/examples/basic-usage/new-release-note
     modified: sphinx/source/examples/basic-usage/new-release-note-date
     modified: sphinx/source/examples/basic-usage/new-release-note-header-footer
     modified: sphinx/source/examples/basic-usage/new-release-note-v1
     modified: sphinx/source/examples/basic-usage/release-note.yaml
     deleted: docs/py-modindex.html

Continuous integration
======================

Added new templating integration test
-------------------------------------

Added a new test that creates a template and then tried to build it.

::

     modified: tests/test_integ.py

Continuous integration
======================

Add integration tests
---------------------

Added basic integration tests. More work needed.

::

     added: pytest.ini
     added: tests/inputs/barebones.yaml
     added: tests/inputs/fully-featured.yaml
     added: tests/inputs/mostly-featured.yaml
     added: tests/inputs/to-prune.yaml
     added: tests/outputs/barebones.rst
     added: tests/outputs/fully-featured.rst
     added: tests/outputs/mostly-featured.rst
     added: tests/outputs/pruned.yaml
     added: tests/test_integ.py
     deleted: test/575-cli-class-factory.yaml
     deleted: test/burgers.rst
     deleted: test/burgers.yaml
     deleted: test/test.py
     deleted: test/test.rst
     deleted: test/test2.yaml
