Version 0.5.0 (2026-07-17)
**************************

 * *Enhancement*: Render issue information and number in exported rst
 * *Enhancement*: Add file name to validation error.
 * *Enhancement*: Group entries under a single category heading
 * *Enhancement*: Open created release-note templates in an editor
 * *Bug fix*: Keep errors visible under --quiet and stop the progress bar leaking
 * *Bug fix*: Make --no-color actually disable ansi formatting
 * *Bug fix*: Refuse to overwrite an existing release note without --force
 * *Bug fix*: Reject unrecognized fields and report the offending one
 * *Bug fix*: Resolve the base branch instead of assuming main
 * *Bug fix*: Fix config file creation and settings precedence
 * *Bug fix*: Survive empty config files and support directories for -t
 * *Bug fix*: Tidy internal apis from code review
 * *Bug fix*: Fix path.cwd fallback and correct a malformed test fixture
 * *Bug fix*: Reject duplicate keys in yaml files instead of silently dropping data
 * *Documentation*: Fix versioning number scheme
 * *Continuous integration*: Add a manually-dispatched release workflow

Enhancement
===========

Render issue information and number in exported rst
-------------------------

The related-issue field from release note YAML files is now rendered
in the generated RST output. Three new template variables are
available: {issue}, {issue_number}, and {issue_url}. The default
template includes the issue reference between the description and
the file-change listing.


`#13 <https://github.com/biosafetylvl5/brassy/issues/13>`_

::

     modified: src/brassy/actions/build_release_notes.py
     modified: src/brassy/templates/settings_template.py
     modified: sphinx/source/using-brassy.rst
     modified: tests/test_generate_section_string.py
     modified: tests/outputs/barebones.rst
     modified: tests/outputs/fully-featured.rst
     modified: tests/outputs/mostly-featured.rst
     modified: tests/outputs/multi-entry.rst
     modified: tests/outputs/real-world.rst
     added: sphinx/source/releases/latest/13-render-issue-info.yaml

Add file name to validation error.
-------------------------

This adds the filename of the file failing validation to the error upon failed validation.



::

     modified: src/brassy/utils/file_handler.py
     modified: tests/test_integ.py
     modified: tests/inputs/real-world.yaml
     modified: tests/outputs/real-world.rst

Group entries under a single category heading
-------------------------

When a category contains multiple change entries, the category heading
(e.g., "Bug fix") is now rendered once with all entries grouped
beneath it, instead of repeating the heading per entry.
The output template now distinguishes between category-level lines
(rendered once per category) and entry-level lines (rendered per
entry) based on which template variables each line contains.


`#64 <https://github.com/biosafetylvl5/brassy/issues/64>`_

::

     modified: src/brassy/actions/build_release_notes.py
     modified: tests/test_integ.py
     modified: sphinx/source/using-brassy.rst
     added: tests/inputs/multi-entry.yaml
     added: tests/outputs/multi-entry.rst
     added: tests/test_generate_section_string.py

Open created release-note templates in an editor
-------------------------

Brassy can now open a newly created YAML template in the user's text
editor, similar to how ``git commit`` opens the commit message editor.
Enable the new ``auto_open_editor`` setting (``false`` by default) in
the ``.brassy`` file, and ``brassy -t`` will launch the resolved editor
on the created template.
The editor is resolved in git-like priority order: the ``--editor``
CLI flag, the ``default_editor`` setting, ``$VISUAL``, ``$EDITOR``, git's
``core.editor``, then a platform default (``notepad`` on Windows,
``vi`` elsewhere).
Use ``--no-open`` to suppress the editor for a single invocation.


`#51 <https://github.com/biosafetylvl5/brassy/issues/51>`_

::

     modified: src/brassy/utils/CLI.py
     modified: src/brassy/utils/file_handler.py
     modified: src/brassy/templates/settings_template.py
     modified: sphinx/source/using-brassy.rst
     modified: sphinx/source/api.rst
     modified: tests/test_integ.py
     added: src/brassy/utils/editor_handler.py
     added: src/brassy/actions/create_note.py

Bug fix
===========

Keep errors visible under --quiet and stop the progress bar leaking
-------------------------

Errors are now written to standard error on a console that --quiet never
silences, so a failing command is no longer silent in scripts and CI.
The reading progress bar is bound to the quiet-aware console, so --quiet
suppresses it instead of letting it through. Output explicitly requested
with --output-to-console, --get-changed-files and --version is written to
standard output and survives --quiet, which makes piping it reliable.




::

     modified: src/brassy/utils/messages.py
     modified: src/brassy/utils/CLI.py
     modified: src/brassy/actions/build_release_notes.py
     modified: sphinx/source/using-brassy.rst

Make --no-color actually disable ansi formatting
-------------------------

The --no-color/-nc flag was parsed but never applied, and its default was
inverted so it read as enabled even when absent. It now defaults to off,
is honoured, and strips every ANSI escape (colour and bold) rather than
colour alone.




::

     modified: src/brassy/utils/CLI.py
     modified: src/brassy/utils/messages.py

Refuse to overwrite an existing release note without --force
-------------------------

Writing a YAML template with -t no longer silently overwrites a file that
already exists; brassy exits with an error instead. Pass --force to
overwrite on purpose. This protects notes derived from the current branch
name, which land on the same path on every run.




::

     modified: src/brassy/utils/file_handler.py
     modified: src/brassy/actions/create_note.py
     modified: src/brassy/utils/CLI.py

Reject unrecognized fields and report the offending one
-------------------------

Release-note entries now reject unknown keys, so a misspelled field
is reported by name instead of being silently ignored while its
value is dropped. The underlying validation error is included in the
message rather than discarded. A dict-safe validator no longer raises a
bare KeyError when a required key is absent.




::

     modified: src/brassy/templates/release_yaml_template.py
     modified: src/brassy/utils/file_handler.py

Resolve the base branch instead of assuming main
-------------------------

--get-changed-files no longer crashes with a raw traceback on repositories
whose base branch is not called main. Brassy tries main, master then trunk,
and accepts a --base-branch flag or a base_branch setting to override the
choice. When no base branch can be found it exits with a clear message.




::

     modified: src/brassy/utils/git_handler.py
     modified: src/brassy/utils/CLI.py
     modified: src/brassy/templates/settings_template.py
     modified: sphinx/source/using-brassy.rst

Fix config file creation and settings precedence
-------------------------

Creating a config file no longer raises AttributeError when the parent
directory is missing, so init works again. A missing configuration file no
longer contributes a full set of defaults that reset settings from
higher-precedence files, and environment variable overrides now apply even
when no config file exists.




::

     modified: src/brassy/utils/settings_manager.py

Survive empty config files and support directories for -t
-------------------------

An empty or comments-only configuration file no longer crashes every
brassy command with a TypeError; it now contributes no settings, exactly
like a missing file, and a config file that is not a YAML mapping produces
an error naming the offending file. Passing an existing directory to -t
now places a branch-named template inside it, as the help text has always
promised, instead of refusing with a misleading suggestion to use --force.
The documentation now also notes that flags such as --force must come
after the file name given to -t.




::

     modified: src/brassy/utils/settings_manager.py
     modified: src/brassy/utils/file_handler.py
     modified: sphinx/source/using-brassy.rst
     modified: tests/brassy/utils/test_settings_manager.py
     modified: tests/test_cli_ux.py
     modified: .gitignore

Tidy internal apis from code review
-------------------------

create_note no longer returns a meaningless 0; it returns None, since no
caller consumed the value. load_yaml now accepts a Path as well as a str
for its file_path argument, and the redundant str() casts at its call
sites in settings_manager and prune_yaml were removed.




::

     modified: src/brassy/actions/create_note.py
     modified: src/brassy/utils/yaml_handler.py
     modified: src/brassy/utils/settings_manager.py
     modified: src/brassy/actions/prune_yaml.py

Fix path.cwd fallback and correct a malformed test fixture
-------------------------

Resolving a template path with no working directory used a non-existent
Path.getcwd method; it now uses Path.cwd. The fully-featured test fixture
had mis-indented file keys that silently dropped changed files, now
corrected along with its golden output.




::

     modified: src/brassy/utils/file_handler.py
     modified: tests/inputs/fully-featured.yaml
     modified: tests/outputs/fully-featured.rst
     added: tests/test_cli_ux.py
     added: tests/brassy/utils/test_CLI.py
     added: tests/brassy/utils/test_file_handler.py
     added: tests/brassy/utils/test_settings_manager.py
     added: sphinx/source/releases/latest/fix-cli-output-and-safety.yaml

Reject duplicate keys in yaml files instead of silently dropping data
-------------------------

Brassy now fails with a clear error when a YAML file declares the same key
twice, rather than silently keeping only the last occurrence.
Previously a release note that declared a category such as ``bug fix:``
twice would build successfully while quietly discarding every entry in the
first block, because PyYAML keeps only the last of a set of duplicate keys.
``--prune`` was affected the same way, and rewrites files in place, so the
discarded entries were destroyed on disk.
The error names the file, the duplicated key, and the line of both
occurrences. It applies at every nesting level and to every YAML file
brassy reads, including ``.brassy`` configuration files.
As part of the same change, malformed YAML now reports a readable error
instead of an unhandled traceback.


`#2 <https://github.com/biosafetylvl5/brassy/issues/2>`_

::

     modified: src/brassy/utils/file_handler.py
     modified: src/brassy/utils/settings_manager.py
     modified: src/brassy/actions/prune_yaml.py
     modified: sphinx/source/api.rst
     modified: tests/test_integ.py
     added: src/brassy/utils/yaml_handler.py
     added: tests/brassy/utils/test_yaml_handler.py

Documentation
===========

Fix versioning number scheme
-------------------------

This updates the numbering scheme to use standard semantic versioning.



::

     modified: docs/_modules/brassy/utils/file_handler.html
     modified: docs/_sources/releases/index.rst.txt
     modified: docs/index.html
     modified: docs/objects.inv
     modified: docs/releases/index.html
     modified: docs/searchindex.js
     modified: pyproject.toml
     modified: sphinx/source/releases/index.rst
     modified: tests/inputs/mostly-featured.yaml
     moved: docs/_sources/releases/0.0.2.rst.txt
     moved: docs/_sources/releases/0.0.3.rst.txt
     moved: docs/_sources/releases/0.0.4.rst.txt
     moved: docs/releases/0.0.2.html
     moved: docs/releases/0.0.3.html
     moved: docs/releases/0.0.4.html
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/0.0.2.rst
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/0.0.3.rst
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/0.0.4.rst
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/archive-0.0.2/build-without-write.yaml
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/archive-0.0.2/fix-blank-line-bug.yaml
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/archive-0.0.2/fix-quiet.yaml
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/archive-0.0.2/get-changed-files.yaml
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/archive-0.0.2/output-to-console.yaml
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/archive-0.0.3/1-brassy-fails-if-run-on-blank-file.yaml
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/archive-0.0.3/30-accept-strings-in-related-issue-for-compatibility-with-internal-repos-with-inaccessible-urls.yaml
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/archive-0.0.3/39-release-v003.yaml
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/archive-0.0.3/6-add-date-field.yaml
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/archive-0.0.3/9-add-default-template-write-path.yaml
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/archive-0.0.3/add-init.yaml
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/archive-0.0.3/fix-docs-yaml.yaml
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/archive-0.0.3/fix-no-build-no-title.yaml
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/archive-0.0.3/fix-template-arg-error.yaml
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/archive-0.0.3/int-tests.yaml
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/archive-0.0.3/put-title-above-desc-in-temp.yaml
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/archive-0.0.4/49-support-yyyy-mm-dd-date-format.yaml
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/archive-0.0.4/59-brassy-cant-generate-documentation-for-branches-with-a-in-their-name.yaml
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/archive-0.0.4/add-dev-container.yaml
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/archive-0.0.4/add-linting-ci.yaml
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/archive-0.0.4/add-release-note-checking-ci.yaml
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/archive-0.0.4/issue-documentation.yaml
     moved: sphinx/source/releases/latest/58-brassy-misinterprets-files-moves-with-brace-expansion-as-invalid-substitution-causing-release-note-generation-failure.yaml

Continuous integration
===========

Add a manually-dispatched release workflow
-------------------------

A new GitHub Actions workflow ("Release") automates cutting a release. On
manual dispatch with a version number it builds the release notes for that
version from the accumulated YAML in sphinx/source/releases/latest/, moves
those notes into archive-<version>/, bumps the package version, rebuilds the
committed docs, commits the result to a release/v<version> branch, publishes
the package to PyPI with a token, tags v<version>, and opens a pull request
into main. The releases index now uses a globbed toctree so each new
version page is listed automatically without editing the index.




::

     added: .github/workflows/release.yaml
     modified: sphinx/source/releases/index.rst